Scenario1_Explainer
The actual expenses for each year listed tend to lean towards 150,000; y9 was the lowest year recorded. Therefore, it would seem wise to assume that actual expenses may increase this year given that y9 was a low-cost year in comparison to years prior. In addition, the average safety buffer appears to be in for around 30-40k - this information formed the basis of my chosen safety buffer (about 40k if an increase in actual expense is taken into consideration. 
I added a buffer as previous years show that expenses vary up to around 200,000. While the last two years have been the lowest expenses yet, there is no guarantee they won't rise again so I wanted to account for the likelihood of rising to the 150,000-160,000 mark as seen in previous years, without overbudgeting too much. If we remain at/below last year's expenses then my buffer won't be excessively high (compared to previous years) either.
The last few years budgets were set too high, though is understandable given the y6/7 need for a much higher budget. I did not want to set it lower than 160000 as it was the guesstimated average of all budgets.
The trend for actual expenses has been decreasing at a modest rate the past two years, about a 17% average decline. Using that to guide this year as the low end, we can expect around 110,000. Knowing that there have been upswings in expense, we add that to the buffer. Without getting too complicated in our analysis, we can reduce the budget by approximately 10000. 
Budget has been reducing for last two years, as has the actual expenses. I feel therefore that reducing to 160,000 would fall in line with most recent expenses while also still offering a slight safety net.
Compared to the trends from previous years, I have gone for around 180,000 which is a pretty average value for expenses. Furthermore relative to last year and the year before it is a pretty similar value that sits between so hopefully will be similar this year
Looking at the past 4 years from Y6, the actual expenses decreased. However, this isn't guaranteed to be the case for the Y10. For the past 4 years average actual expenses were about 166k. I added safety buffer of just under 30k.
Over the past two years, the actual budget has been lower that 150000. A buffer of 10000 was added.
The amuont being used has been steadily falling. The amount I have chosen is above last years spend but below the safety buffer as there is still some leeway to play with, giving other departments room for adjustment if needed.
The budgeted and actual expenses have been going down the last two years. But I do not know if this will continue for the next year without further information on the economic climate. Costs could go up and setting the budget at 180,000 means that even if costs went up 20-30% there would still be a safety buffer. i think the consequences of under-estimating the budget are worse than over-estimating.
Wanted to cut the budget to reduce the likely underspend and mindful that this budget easily exceeds the actual spend over the last two years so would imagine it is more than enough.
Budgeted expenses generally rose from Y1 until Y7, and actual expenses generally rose too. But from Y7 to Y9, there is a downward movement in budgeted expenses as well as a downward trend in actual expenses. For Y8 and Y9, safety buffer was +40k above actual expenses. Given the recent year trends, it's safe to assume that budgeted expenses as well as actual expenses will be lower, too.
Looking at the data there is always quite a big surplus in the safety, so i have thereofe reduced what i think that is (i reckon about 20k fot saftey), and as the actual expenses is trending down i have also reduced that by just under 10%),
I tried to select a value that was roughly on average with the last 10 years of data. This value will allow me to complete work of my actual budget and have a decent safety buffer if needed.
I wanted it to be right on with the past year's budget as I think it would be less than this but just in case the actual will increase (because I don't know why the current trend is down) means that I should leave some room for an increase. 
The capital budget has been dropping for the last few years.  The implication is that it will drop further as fewer capital projects are required.  That being said, you can't budget for last year's expenses, you have to have the budget for the unexpected so putting the budget about $20,000 over the previous year's expenses should be enough buffer.
The actual expenditure each year was well below the budget. I chose to slightly decrease the budget from last years as it was significantly underspent, but left enough for a decent safety net. However, my budget allowed for expenses to be higher than the previous year, but not by a massive amount.
Sufficiently large to cover the actual expenditure over the last few years, but with a likelihood of actually having a buffer
For the last 9 years, most of the actual expenses have been below £186,000. there were 3 years that were slightly higher than that. Previously the budgets have had quite a high buffer of over £20,000. particularly in the last 2 years, the buffer has been over £40,000. So I have estimated that we will spend approx £150,000 to £160,000 of actual income and I have included a small buffer of £20,000 to £30,000.
it will be more than the previous year
I took the mean value of all nine former year actual expenses and roughly got $144,000. I did the same with the budgeted expenses and calculated the value to be $172,000. I considered the maximum and minimum numbers for the actual expenses and decided to take half-way between the average budgeted expenses and maximum budgeted expenses to play it safe.
The budget over the past few years has been less but the average over the years shown is about £160000 so adding a buffer would produce £180000
I am taking a chance that there is a downward trend in these expenses, although they were at a historic low last year. Therefore I'm expecting that actual expenses might end up the same or slightly higher than last year, and that I can trim the budget sum while preserving quite a good safety margin (though a little less than in the last two years, in the hope of being more accurate in my assumptions)
"The general trend is to not use more than 175k for ""DO"" so to allow for extra expenses I have included an extra 10k for a buffer. It is likely, based on past trends, that this will cover the cost needed."
Always better and prefer to have more money left over than not enough money to pay for this. Too much of a buffer is still an issue as you're not using the resources effectively enough.
I calculated roughly the mean of the budget expenses for the previous years and assigned that value thinking that the actual expenses are going to be either the same or lower compared to previous years.
In the last year, costs continued the downward trend. They dropped by 10% so I have continued on this forecast , expecting the actual expenses to be around 120k with 35k buffer which is in line with previous years.
Looking at the patterns of expenses based on previous years, I would estimate that the expenses will come in under 200,000. However, to ensure that there is a safety buffer, I want to make sure that there is enough wiggle room in the budget. Based on the pattern shown on the bar graph and in the table, the expenses have come in lower for the past 2 years, suggesting that as a city we would not need to spend as much. However, I went for 200000 because this should ensure that should the expenses come in higher than expected (I would expect based on the data that the expenses would come in lower than 150000), there is enough of a safety buffer to cover this. 
Costs have been declining year on year for the last few years, so maintaining budget level means we are likely to have a larger underspend if trends continue as is. If they don't, then we will still have a safety buffer in case costs rise.
the average budget for the last 9 years comes out to 193K with the average actual spend being 165k average buffer is 16%. Because I have no real visibility of intended spend or line items, I have to go with the average. there are clearly years where the planners do have visibility and this is why the forecast is higher on some years - without that, I need to plan safely.
The buffer has grown in recent years so if expences remain similar a smaller buffer allows a greater budget for other projects.
Last year was lower than the previous six years and with costs always rising it seems unlikely to keep falling
Looking at the two previous years, the actual were 40k lower than expected and the budget for the two previous years had a difference of roughly 20k so I budgeted for 10k less than the previous year
The budgeted expenses started to fall from Y7, nearly by 20,000 each year so following the trend, it is expected the expenses will also fall by around 20,000 from Y9 to Y10
It would be in line with the last year's expenses 
There's been a steady reduction on expenses 
The average actual expenses was approx 165k over the 9 year period. Only in 2 years has it gone slightly above 190k. Setting my budget at 190k should allow a decent buffer, if it is too short it should be only marginally short.
After the peak of Y7, it looks like the expenses for DO are trending downwards. That said, we cannot count on expenses continuing to trend downward, so we are anticipating they will be about the same with a view to saving as much as we can during the year. 
In the current climate, the expenses are likely to increase
Although the trend in expenses has been down wards in the last few years, the average over the entire period has been higher  and therefor I would assume actual costs are possibly nearer to £160000. I also wanted to build a buffer of £30K as security
Whilst the amoutn required has been dropping, I am hesitant to budget less than has ever been budgeted before
There has been an upwards trend in expenses over the previous years until the past two years where there was a drop. I would want to over-budget for expenses to make sure we have a buffer and don't go over budget so that the council is not at risk of cutting services and so that our public perception is not hindered, affecting possible re-election. I have chosen a figure around the 200k mark because I'm also concerned about inflation and cost of living expenses which may also affect Carlton. Previously expenses had reached a figure of over £200k but I think it unlikely that the expenses will rise that sharply looking at previous year on year trend. 
In the last 3 years actual expenses have fallen each year. Likely to fall again this year. Likely to be a safety buffer of 20000+
I looked at the previous two years budgeted and actual expenses and based my investment on those. Based on the two previous years, the actual expenses did not go over £150,000 and so I believe a budget of around £170,000 for Y10 provides enough safety that the budget will not be exceeded.
The actual expenses of 132k in y9 was the lowest in the whole 9 years so I don't think that it is a very good figure to be working off. I looked at the highest actual expenses of y5 being 186k, y6 193k and y7 being 194k and I decided that those figures are a safer actual expense to go with, and to use 5k as a safety buffer - so 194k plus 5k buffer should give plenty of safety for the year and obviously if I still have the expenses of 132k as actual expenses by end of year, then I would have had a safety buffer of 68k which is much higher than the highest of 47k previously - but with the cost of living having increased world wide, how there is uncertainty in certain areas around economies, that having the larger buffer will keep the city in a safe place and if there is that huge buffer left, and the expenses come in much lower, then we can re route the money at a later stage into a city improvement project.
My budget decision is based off the pattern on the increase and decrease of the previous  years budgets. I then took a look at the  buffer amounts and chose a middle ground number that should leave room for  about a 35000 buffer.
I have set the budget at approximately 175,000 in cases of expenditure increasing despite the last two years being significantly lower than 175,000. Although years 5, 6 and 7 exceeded the budget value it is unlikely considering the current downwards trajectory in expenses that it will reach these levels again. 
"When the budget increased, it did not increase by a substantial percentage - furthermore, the budgeted amount would be sufficient for actual expenses in the majority of the years.

The Buffer for the last two years has also been considerable, so it may suggest that even if there were any increased expenses, the budget stated would still be sufficient."
For the last two years, the actual expenses were much lower than they had been previously. And the safety buffer also was. Those were the only two years where the safety buffer was above £40,000. In previous years, it ranged from £14,000 to £32,000. I don't think such a high buffer is necessary. In the previous year, the budget was £173,000. I have taken this down to £160,000. I think this should still give a decent buffer of between £20,000 and 30,000 which would put it in line with the usual trend. 
In 5 of the 9 years the actual expenses were lower than £160k, therefore I feel it is safe to assume it would be this year as well, and this leaves room in my budget for other types of expenses. Over a 50% chance feels reasonably safe, 
The spend has been coming down each year, so following that trend I need less than the last two years and this allows for a buffer
This continues on the trend of lowering the budget while remaining higher than the expenses from last year.
historically budgets appeared to have peaks and troughs so year 10 may be due a peak so i have allowed for  this.132
I want to compensate for the chance that actual expenses may go up again, as they have in the past been higher on average than in Y9.
Since y7 there has been a decrease in the forecast of budgeted expenses and this could indicate that budgets are being tightly scrutinised and therefore anything over and above y9 could raise questions. There was a slight difference in the safety buffer amounts from y8 & y9 and it feels safer to keep in line with these figures.
132k was last year so for an increase in inflation plus a smaller buffer
keeping a high safety buffer while lowering expenses enough that, to the public, it looks like an improvement on the previous years spending 
Looking at previous years, after hitting a peak in Y6, the actual expenses have been coming down. based on tht trend it is safe to assume that this year will need less that last year and the buffer is still high enough in case there is anything unexpected
I kept the budget very similiar to last year (y9).  Last year (y9) produced a large buffer so it seems reasonable to not increase the budget too much and not be able to provide services we would want to.  However the budgets for yr9 and yr8 were lower than previous years so I wouldn't want to lower the amount and not have a high enough budget.  Also the cost of providing services etc generally increase year on year so I wanted to bear that in mind.
Expenses are dropping year upon year. I am just continuing this trend.
I have allowed just over 180,000 including a safety buffer of 42000. I have allowed for the new budget and am allowing in general for cost of living increases in materials, wages and spending in general.
Budgeted expenses seem to be usually around the 180,000 mark. The was and increase years 5,6, and 7, possibly due to extra work which seems to be completed?  
There will be some overall increase in cost which is a reality. To maintain a buffer it’s useful to come in under budget. In reality we all expect there will be rises so it’s better to be under budget than overspending 
I have gone in between the last two year's budgeted expenses as expenses have been decreasing.
I took an average of the Budgeting expenses over the 9 years and added an inflation factor of 5%. This yielded 203,177. Then I did the same for the buffer zone(along with an inflation factor). This game me 37,850. I added them together for the final budge. But this was greater than what could be selected on the sliding bar above. So I just picked the maximum. 
I can see that budget has increased from year 8 to year 9 so I supposed this is the new trend
Following inflation and economic growth, the budget should grow year on year so I have chosen a higher budget. However, I have not raised it considerably due to current economic situations across the world.
I budgeted the amount I did as I can see that the actual expenses are reducing year on year. My guess is that it maybe coming towards the end of the project. I aimed for a similar percentage difference for the actual/budget compared to the previous year. I feel I have accounted for enough of a safety buffer. I want enough of a safety buffer to not disappoint the citizens of Carlton City. 
the last 2 years there has been a buffer of about 40,000. if we reduce the budget the citizens will be happy as it looks like you are making cuts. and also this still leaves enough for a buffer
I have budgeted a similar amount to the previous years budget to allow for a safety buffer, but would expect actual expenses to come in at a lower amount and make it appear that I have spent tax payers money in an economical manner.
It has only been above 180000 3 times in the past 9 years and recently the spend has been going down as last year only spent 132033 in total i think 180,000 would allow a decent buffer 
Without knowing what the actual expenses would be, I erred on the safe side and aimed to match the highest actual expenses from the past 9 years, which was 194348. I've budgeted 221957, which is fairly close to the budgeted expenses that year and includes a buffer of around 27609. It's possible the buffer should be larger, but since I've picked the highest figure of the actual expenses from the past 9 years, I've reasoned that it should be okay, since expenses are highly unlikely to exceed that figure.
Actual expenses have been in decline for the past 2 years and therefore I felt budgeted expenses could be lowered too and it would still allow a reasonable buffer.
I can see a downward trend but to leave a buffer zone I have based my decision on the chance it could go back up to the year before lasts level.
By creating a rough mean average between year 8 and year 9, the budget did not require an extreme increase past 180k, but could potentially use a buffer on an extra 10k from the year before to ensure financial safety without waste.
There is usually a large safety buffer but in the historical data there is a clear downward trend in expenses. Whilst one doesnt want to make this too low the size of the safety buffer in the previous few years was much larger then when budgets were higher and so it is expected that the budget will be manageable but it seems safe to forecast a slightly lower expense and not too much
It provides an adequate buffer based on recent history.
I budgeted a little less than Y9 because the trend for the past 2 years shows that there is a decrease in the amount of the actual expenses. However, because it's quite a recent trend, and therefore not steady yet, I elected to be prudent and not to make the budget much lower than the previous year, just in case something happens that causes the trend to change.
I feel £185k is a good amount compared to the previous year's actual expenses. Looking at the 2 previous year's, I wouldn't expect the actual expenses to exceed £150k. So I went for 185k to allow for some slippage and so a safety buffer is in place.
The actual expenses has never gone above 200,000 and I felt the previous years there was a significant buffer there that could be used more effectively.  Setting a conservative budget should allow for the buffer to be used and at the same time not plunge the city into debt. 
Y9's expenses were well below the past 5 years average expenses, so to ensure that this was not just a one off drop, I used an average of actual expenses for the past 3 years plus a safety buffer also of the approximate average safety buffer over the past 3 years. As per the instructions citizens like to see actual expenses come in under budget, so allocating a budget higher then expected increases the odds of that happening without going too high to cut into other city expenses. 
I wanted to build in enough of a buffer in order to budget for any unexpected expeses.
On average it seems that the budget for previous years is around $170,000. So it is safe to assume that my budget needs to be around this number. I also considered the fact that spending for year 9 ($132,033) is less than the actual spending for year 8 ($146, 703). Therefore there seems to be a small trend in that actual spending is going down for the last 2 years. I can assume that spending for year 10 may also decrease; however, to account for any unpredictable expenses I chose a figure of $165,389. The lowest amount of budget expenses in year 10 but still giving room for any unexpected costs. 
Expenditure rose steadily until year 7. Since then it has reduced at quite a rapid rate in successive years 8 and 9. Whilst it is reasonable to expect a continuing trend it is also prudent to expect that the reduction may slow down. i am therfore again reducing the budget but am building a provision in case the trend stops or suddenly reverses.
i have budgeted a higher amount compared to previous year as i expect to incur additional capital expenditures this year compared to the previous couple of years.
I budgeted less as it seems they are spending less each year recently, I then included a buffer amount 
Despite the downward trend year on year in budget costs I would build in a large marking of safety so  I chose a figure some 6 0r 7 percent above last years to give a hi chance of ending the year on an underspend which would be acceptable to taxpaying citizens
The actual expenses are decreasing every year, so if it is a trend then we can assume they will be at least equal as this year's or likely reduced. I am therefore setting the same amount as last year for budgeted expenses, which will leave us a buffer at least as big or hopefully bigger this year.
The optimum safety buffer would appear to be around 25,000. However as the actual expenses in Y9 were lower than any of the preceding years and we don't know what other factors may influence this, I have taken last year's actual expenses and allowed a slightly larger buffer on top of this
Actual expenses appear to be decreasing in recent years
I kept it around the same as last year as there has been a trend that there has been less and less actual expenses over the last few years. I didn't want to increase the budgeted expenses too high as that would be difficult to explain during the New Years meeting to all the citizens.
"It is always best to budget more than actually needed ""just in case"". I do it as well with my budgeting, so if there are some surprises like broken washing machine, I know I will be able to handle it. "
"The actual expense of ""DO"" has decreased over the last two years, so I expect that it will still be relatively low this year too. So I've decided to slightly reduce the budgeted expenses from last year, as there was a high safety buffer last year, and this is money that could be budgeted to pay for other things."
Without any context as to the fluctuations where the budget and spend went up in Y5 and down in Y8, the patterns show that the spend holds around the same ballpark for 3-4 years at a time. If we take that we are currently entering year three of a pattern, I'd make an estimate that actual expenditure would be between that of Y8 and Y9 (c. 140,000) and then have added a buffer of 30,000. The biggest upward leap in actual expenses year-to-year was 31,000 (Y4 to Y5) so this seems a reasonable worst-case scenario.
I don't want to go over budget, but I also don't want to leave a huge safety buffer. The actual expenses each year have never risen by more than around 30,000 over the last 9 years, so I have budgeted just over 30,000 higher than the Y9 actual spend, which should mean that the budget isn't exceeded but the safety buffer isn't too big
I took the average of the last three years to get an approximate figure for actual expenses (approx $157,573.67) and added about $38,654.66 as a buffer (average of difference from past 3 years) to the budgeted expenses, for approx $196,228.33.
I have taken the sensible but important decision to set the budget around 15,000 lower than than last year, releasing this funding for other important projects. The budget has been too cautious in recent years, depriving the local region of important funds. 
After two years of falling expenses the unpredictability means that expenses will either increase or decrease next year. I'm siding on an increase this year. also with two years of substantial safety buffers which could allow excess spending in some areas next year for certain projects, 
Y10 is set based on looking at the previous years Budgeted and Actual Expenses. For Y1 to Y9 the Budget Expenses have never been as low as Y10. With this in mind the Actual Expenses for Y1 to Y9 have only been over Y10s budget on 4 occasions and with the last 2 years showing a significantly lower Actual Expense which is forecast to be the same for Y10 providing a similar Safety Buffer as previous years.
The prior year cost of 132,033 is a historical low, and comes after dropping costs for the last 3 years. I'm not sure betting on a 4th drop is wise, but the safety buffer doesn't look like it needs to be as high as it has been in prior years. A buffer of 30% seems too high, around 20% seems better. 132033*1.2=158,440, therefore 160000 seems around correct, allowing for a good buffer,but not too high. It would also have covered costs on 5/9 prior years.
Since Y7, both the proposed budget and actual expenses has come down each year. Between Y7 and Y8 especially there seemed to be a big decrease in actual expenses. Without knowing anything else about the city, it would make sense that expenses may continue to fall slightly, so why not factor that into this year's budget.
After large spends in year Yrs 5,6 & 7 our total needs are now less as the capital has been spent previously.  With this in mind a budget in line with last year should cover our expenses and allow for a budget surplus as per the previous years.  As we have been very efficient with our spending over the last 10 yrs and built a significant surplus going forward we should look to ideas which can enhance our community with these funds.  
Due to the pattern of this expense decreasing over the last several years, and each safety buffer being a minimum of $15000 above the actual expenses, I chose to imagine the actual budget will be around $125000 (very similar to the last year's expense) and so have a $25000 safety buffer.
Each year expenses average around 160k, so wanted to have sufficient buffer to cover the budget for an *average* year.
Keeps a similar buffer to the past year, hard to look past the previous year to judge what actual expenses would be so best to reference back to the previous year only.
Money spent in Y9 was unusually low compared to all previous years and is an outlier. Some projects in Y9 were pushed back and will be spent in Y10. Therefore assuming Y9 projects will be realised in Y10 and keeping the budgeted expenses the same, plus an increase for inflation.
I have decided to budget to 197000, (it was not possible to get to this exact number with the slider for me) as I have noticed that the budgeted expenses reached or surpassed the 200k only three years out of 9 and the actual expenses never reached 195k. I feel confident that even this year, considering any possible event and emergency use of the budget it will not reach 195k. Furthermore, in the past two years, the actual expenses decreased by a considerable amount (50-60k) so I feel confident that with a budget of 200k, we would be covered faced with any eventuality and in case everything goes smoothly we would be faced with much lower expenses. In any case, setting a budget of 200k can make us confident and feel ready for any event.
The forecast budget for year 10 was based on the actual expenses for year 9 with around a 40 000 dollar buffer factored in to cover unforeseen expenses. The 40 000 dollar buffer was made with reference to the safety buffer of the previous two years which was around 40 000 dollars.  
From Y8 to Y9, there has been a largest safety buffer recorded. Having that money doing nothing will not improve the city. It could be used to fund new projects and update/repairing old infrastructure before it becomes a problem later on. The safe buffer should not be more than 20% of the budgeted expenses. 
Going through the past 9 years I would expect the expenses to be similar to the previous years, however the safety budget is rather high so I have opted to reduce this and go £10k lower, so that there is less risk to additional funding for other projects.
Based on the limited information, in the last few years, the budget has been decreasing, which led me to think that some of the projects might need higher expenses in Y10. Also, historically, the budget fluctuated between 1 to 14%, so I have selected the average % to increase budget.
In these uncertain times we are facing we find costs rising for things such as services and raw materials.  While we do not wish to impart these costs to our constituents we need to be realistic if we are to maintain current resources and services and implement new services that will benefit all.  I believe that the budget we have set will allow us to do that and also give us breathing space should anything unsuspected be presented and could cause any budgetary constraints.  We do not want to remove any service as we believe in helping our constituents and want them to maintain their beliefs in us.
Based on the previous years expenses I looked at the last two years and decided that the expenses would be half way between the previous two years
The budgeted expenses in years 5 to 7 were quite high. Despite this, there was still a sufficient safety buffer in case of emergencies or other exceptional costs. I noticed a downward trend in actual expenses, regardless of the budgeted expenses, and saw that the safety buffer has been marginally high, particularly in the previous two years. I reason that budgeting slightly lower expenses this year would still yield a sufficient buffer, while also allowing any surplus funds to be allocated to other projects. I'm just trying to approach it logically, in a way that makes sense!
The last two years have had lower actual expenses. The proposed budget gives a safety buffer, but assumes that Y10 will follow the pattern of the previous years and be below the 150,000 mark
Even though there is a track record for coming in safely under budget, there is a significant increase on costs which everyone in the country can appreciate. That extra buffer should absorb the cost rises.
years Y6 & y7 saw a drastic increase followed by lows at Y8,Y9, for this reason it appears it could increase higher than these years, but lower than y8,y9
I based my estimate on computing an average of the budgeted expenses over the previous 9 years. I have taken into consideration the importance of a safety buffer to pay for unplanned expenses. I made this decision by considering the importance of presenting next year at the meeting/conference and illustrating what measures have been taken to improve the economic situation of Carlton City. 
